# Predicting Heart Attacks with Machine Learning

Identifying the risk factors and predicting heart attacks before they happen is a crucial medical application that can be used to save lives! In this project, I explore the possibility of leveraging the latest machine learning advancement for this particular task. For this task, two different datasets are explored. The first dataset is a synthetic dataset generated by ChatGPT and the second dataset contains information of real patients

## Synthetic Dataset

This is the first dataset used for analysis. It is important to note that since this dataset is synthetically generated, there is no meaningful correlation between the features and the risk of heart attack and any machine learning model trained on this dataset will not be able to find meaningful relationships in the data to do better than "random guessing". As I will discuss later in this project, this does not mean that a machine learning model cannot "overfit" on this randomly generated dataset. Deep learning models with lots of parameters have the capacity to just memorize the training dataset and make almost perfect predictions on the training set, without being able to generalize to unseen data points. This dataset contains some notable features including the following:

* Age
* Cholesterol
* Heart Rate
* Diabetes
* Family History
* Smoking
* Obesity
* Alcohol Consumption
* Exercise Hours Per Week
* Previous Heart Problems
* Medication Use
* Stress Level
* Sedentary Hours Per Day
* Income
* BMI
* Triglycerides
* Physical Activity Days Per Week
* Sleep Hours Per Day
* Heart Attack Risk
* systolic
* diastolic
* Sex
* Diet
* Country
* Continent
* Hemisphere

In order to use this dataset for modeling I preprocessed this dataset by one-hot encoding categorical features and z-score normalizing numerical features. The data then is randomly split into train and validation sets.
